Vanguard is great,
but there are other index funds out there
worth checking out.
One great example is iShares,
which is owned by Blackrock,
which has over one trillion,
yes one trillion dollars invested
in 800 ETFs.
So if we go to the iShares website here
at iShares.com,
we see many funds they offer.
Okay for example,
I invested in silver years ago
using the iShares ETF
and if we search here for silver,
we see that ticker on the silver ETF here is SLV.
Separately,
let's check out what the fees are,
which are called expense ratios.
So for SLV it's .5% or half a percent
which is a bit higher than I expected.
So here's a documents
that I got from the Barclays iShares website,
which is a 12 page menu of their products
and the fees are pretty low for many of their products here.
And so please find attached this pdf.
And the attachment is called iShares Product List.pdf
And if you can,
please open this right now,
so we can go through this together,
if you can't open it and just keep watching thanks.
So as you can see here on page number one,
we pay only 0.04% per year
to own the S&P 500 Index.
That's pretty cheap.
And on the right side here we see that
bond index fees are also quite low.
And we're gonna cover bonds very very soon
and my personal favorite bond fund of theirs is called
the iShares TIP Bond ETF
and the ticker is TIP,
which stands for Treasury Inflation Protected security.
Okay,
which basically allows you to invest
without the worry of inflation.
Okay and that's you can see it at the top of page 5
is the TIP okay.
So we'll talk about inflation later on.
Let's go back now to page number one.
So we can look at international ETF.
So this is not just a US subject course.
Okay and so here we have European,
Pacific and Emerging Market and other stock market,
stock markets to invest in at the bottom here
on left side of page one.
And you can also see bond funds to invest in
on the bottom right side here of page one.
So let's take a look now
at the iShares Core MSCI Emerging Market ETF,
which has the ticker of IEMG.
And my favorite free investment website
is finance.yahoo.com.
And so please go to finance.yahoo.com
in your browser with me.
Again that's finance.yahoo.com.
Okay.
And once you're there,
I want you to enter in ticker IEMG,
okay and we're gonna go over
what many of these dated items here mean very very soon.
But I just wanna show you,
how easy this to learn about stocks,
bonds, commodities, etc,
by just typing the tickers in finance.yahoo.com.
And later on the course,
what we're gonna do is we're gonna create
diversified investment portfolio
to fit your financial needs and goals.
So let's learn more about
iShares Core MSCI Emerging Market ETF
which is ticker IEMG now,
on Yahoo Finance.
So let's click here on the holdings,
to see what stocks are in this ETF fund.
And here we can see what the top 10 stocks are
in this ETF funds.
Okay we have Alibaba,
Samsung, China Mobile, Baidu,
and many more of these stocks as well.
And you'll see that none of these stocks are more than 5%
of this fund,
which is great because it's diversified.
And again we'll cover our diversification soon.
Now,
if we want to learn about any of these stocks,
of course we could just click on them for more details.
And if you want actually,
pause me and go back to our
12 page iShares ETF many pdf document,
and enter in the tickers,
from that pdf in the finance.yahoo.com
to just learn more about each investments.
Okay we're done talking about iShares.
Now we now about two great ETF companies.
We got Vanguard and iShares.
So let's talk about a third ETF company now called
PowerShares,
which is owned by Invesco.
And their products are good,
but some are a little bit more expensive.
PowerShares has a very popular ETF
that represents the US technology stocks
called the Qs by traders and the ticker is QQQ.
And the Qs is an ETF for the Nasdaq stock market.
And the top five positions
or holdings in this QQQ index are
Apple, Microsoft, Amazon,
Facebook and Google,
which is about 40% of this index.
And the Qs is the great way to invest in US tech stocks
instead of buy one or two US larger cap tech stocks
as indexes like this are less risky
than just owning one or two stocks.
And I'll go into lot more detail very soon
on how to do research on stocks soon.
Another ETF company that consider
is State Street's Spiders.
Okay and you can go to
us.spdrs.com/en if you want.
And one that I've transacted in a lot
is the SPY which is the ticker,
SPY which we called the spies
and this is the ETF for the S&P 500.
Okay and so,
if you want we can actually go to finance.yahoo.com,
enter in SPY
and we can learn more about this index.
And the fees here are quite low at .09%
and just try to find the lowest expense ratio
whenever you can when you invest in ETFs.
Lastly,
Schwab is the fifth largest ETF company.
And they've got some amazingly affordable ETF.
And I actually met with Chuck Schwab recently
at an education tech based charity event here
in San Francisco,
nicest guy ever.
He also lives here in the Bay Area.
And he actually pioneered getting cheap access
to investing in stocks many years ago for us.
All of us that is.
And Schwab also offers fantastic ETFs.
And he's actually getting much,
Schwab's getting much more,
the company's getting much more competitive with pricing.
Lastly I wanna mention sector-specific ETFs now.
Okay so just like how we talked about stock index
and bond and commodity index
or country-based ETFs,
there's also many sector-specific ETFs
that are cheap, liquid and easy to buy.
Okay and
that'll give you exposure to different sectors.
For example,
the OIH is the oil services index ETF
offered by a company called VanEck.
And if we go to finance.yahoo.com,
and we type in OIH as a ticker,
we can see what the largest positions are.
And if we click on holdings here,
you can see that this oil services ETF contains
many holdings like Transocean,
which has the coolest ticker ever of RIG,
you've got Baker Hughes,
it's a big position here.
You'll also have Tenaris
which is a great pipe company
which is headquartered in Luxembourg.
And there's also an oil ETF called the XLE,
which contains Exxon and other oil companies.
There's also an XLF financial services index
which has positions in financial services companies
obviously like JP Morgan,
Goldman and another financial services companies.
Now the IYR,
are invest in real estate companies.
And if you type in the EWZ,
it's a great ETF and a way to invest in Brazil.
I love it.
Okay.
Now according to Forbes,
the largest five ETF companies in the US
are shown right here.
And it's,
we're gonna spend much more time
on picking investments from larger ETF companies
as they have the cheaper prices.
And we know that every dollar we save on fees,
can lead to much higher net worth for us,
in the very very long run.
Okay later in life.
And I just want to offer a lot
of higher level ETF fund concepts here
as well as finance.yahoo.com concepts in these lessons.
I really wanna put this whole
top-down investment process on your radar screen right now.
And we're gonna drill down
on many different types of investments
during part three of this course
which I hope you enjoy.
Thank you.